---
layout: post
title: New begin
date: 2019-12-10 12:10
categories: essay
tags: life
---

She had grown up in a high-rise in a part of North Miami where people dress for the beach even when they are miles away. Her father, Tibor, an Israeli diamond dealer, had teased her on the rare occasions when she didn’t get all A’s. “You disturbed the straight line,” he told her. She went to a Jewish day school, where her drama teacher, Lillian Andron, described her as “Ms. Popularity, Ms. Congeniality.” Her nickname was Sharoni, and when she wrote it she dotted the “i” by sketching a tiny flower. She had thrived in a culture that by her mid-twenties she saw as shallow and spiritually arid.

Benjamin Stuber, a classmate at Naropa, told me, “For the more ambitious, type-A students in the class—and I include Sharoni in that group—the spiritual side of Naropa kind of snuck up on us. I don’t think we expected to be as moved as we were.” The M.F.A. program existed, he said, at the intersection of postmodernism and Buddhism. “It was about saying, ‘We are going to kill off these old dualisms, like light and dark, good and bad, dirty and clean, and start to sit with things as they really are.’ ”

At Naropa, Sharon became self-conscious about the ways in which she had always used her strengths—charisma, warmth, an intuitive capacity to please—as crutches. She had once felt that the ingredients of a fulfilling life were fairly straightforward. “All I wanted is to be married to Todd and be a mother,” she said. But that path felt increasingly stale. She was working on “re-integrating, re-patterning, re-structuring,” she wrote to a high-school friend. In her school notebook, she instructed herself to “contemplate uncertainty” every morning. She wondered if she should project a quieter presence. “Maybe I have the need to talk so much in class and offer so much of my opinion because I don’t actually take the time to process things on my own,” she wrote. In the margins of “The Essential Chögyam Trungpa,” a book of teachings by the founder of Naropa, she wrote, “Can we practice meditation w/o being afraid of the foreignness?”